In this file I will practice using branches.
I used the following command to create a new branch where I can safely make changes without disturbing the state of the main branch:
git checkout -b <name-of-the-new-branch>
for example git checkout -b feature-practice

The main branch should always contain a state of the repository that is complete, tested, and ready to be used by the users.
We don't want any half-finished features of the main branch and we especially don't want code that crashes on the main branch.
Instead development should take place on other branches usually we create feature branches but simple things like a quick bug-fix 
shoould also be developed on a bug-fix branch.
Git doesn't enforce any categorization of the branches but as with commits it is also true here that a branch should have a single purpose.

When we are done developing a feature the contents of the feature branch may be merged into the main branch.
This means that all the changes that were committed to the feature branch now get committed to the main branch all at once.
This ensures that there is no time period where the main branch has inconsistent content.

If during development certain lines on the main branch were changed that we also changed on the feature branch then git won't be able to
decide how it should merge these changes together.
This is called a merge conflict and the programmer has to resolve it manually.
So they have to decide which version they want to keep, possibly they want to resolve it in a way that functionally will keep the changes from
both the main and the feature branch.

When we are done developing a feature on the feature branch we can switch back to the main branch with the following command:
git switch <target-branch> 
for example git switch main

Once we are back on the main branch we can merge the content of the feature branch into the main branch with the following command:
git merge <source-branch>
for example git merge feature-practice
When we are switching between branches and doing operations on them it is a good idea to often execute git status.